In this video we're going to continue to explore our request.
We're going to learn how a request can automatically pass the Jason for us.
We're also going to figure out how we can actually print a forecast using the response data.
And finally we're going to explore some options for the dark sky API allowing us to do things like change
the language from something like English to French and change the units from something like Imperial
over to as I say you could get the temperature back in Celsius as opposed to Fahrenheit.
Let's get started by having the request module automatically pass the Jason response for us.
We can do this by customizing the options object and there is a list of all available options over in
the documentation.
So if I head back over to the request module page and scroll down to the table of contents way near
the bottom we have all available options.
If we click this this is going to list out all of the options we can use.
Now up top we already have the you are Al option which we've already used.
If we scroll down the list a little ways we're going to see a Jason option.
Jason in lower case can get set to equal True or false in our case we're gonna set Jason to true which
is going to have the request module automatically pass.
Jason responses for us.
So over inside of our code what do we need to do.
We're going to add a second property onto this object.
So right here alongside of you are L we'll set up Jason in lower case.
This is important.
If you use uppercase it's not gonna work.
Then we're going to set it equal to the Boolean true saying we would like a request to pass this as
Jason.
Now from here that means response.
That body is already going to be an object.
There is no need to actually pass it.
So let's go ahead and change what we're doing inside of our function.
Right here I am going to use console dialog to print the same stuff using our new setup.
That would be first up response response dot body still exists though since we've set Jason to true
is no longer a string.
It is now the past object from there we're going to access currently which is what we were already accessing
and dumping.
That's what we're seeing down below.
Now we can save apt out in J.
S. I can rerun the program and what do we get.
We get the exact same response.
I have my object showing up with my current information it's still clear and the temperature has increased
a little bit to fifty seven point five five degrees.
So now that request is passing the Jason for us we don't have to manually add that code every single
time we're trying to make an HDTV request from node j s from here.
I want to focus on printing a forecast to the user.
Now that means we have to figure out what data to include and what to leave off and that can be tricky
to do when you're looking at a dump of your data from the terminal.
I find it much easier to use the browser to explore what data I want to include from a Jason response.
Now currently the information we're seeing is very hard to pass since it is just a Jason string.
There are chrome extensions out there though that allow you to see nice past formatted data that are
extensions for other browsers as well like Chrome Firefox and Internet Explorer.
So what I'm going to do is search chrome extension and the one we're going to use is called Jason for
matter though there are literally dozens of different options out there.
Right here I have the chrome extension and all I'm going to do is install it.
I'll take a quick moment to add it to Chrome and once we have it installed successfully we can go ahead
and move back to that page refresh things.
And this time the chrome extension is going to notice that Jason has been returned and it's going to
pass it for us.
Now over here with this particular extension.
I can also view the raw data should I want to but the whole goal is to view the past data.
Now we can collapse the various properties easily navigating what we have here.
So we have this root object.
It starts up here on line 1 and it gets closed way way down below at the very end of this object.
So way down here on the last line everything inside of there is part of that object.
Now this object is accessible to us as body.
So an unneccessary response body I am accessing this object from there I can grab any of its properties
like currently.
Which is the fourth one listed that's why response dot body dot currently works.
I could also use response dot body dot time zone as shown here to get the time zone for the current
location.
So now we have a slightly better idea as to how we're accessing this information below.
Currently we have a minute early so we can get a minute by minute forecast.
If I was to collapse that we have hourly below that we have daily and below that we have some flags
and we also have the offset which are not particularly useful for our purposes.
Now what are we trying to do here.
Well currently we're just going to use the currently property that we do have other forecast information
we could use to get even more data which we'll explore a little later.
So for now we're just going to focus on this object and all of the properties are values we can use.
Let's go ahead and talk about exactly what type of forecast we'd like to print down below.
I have some challenged comments.
It's going to be up to you to use the information on currently to print a little message using that
actual information.
So in general the goal is to print something like this.
It is currently fifty eight point five five degrees out there is a zero percent chance of rain.
Now this piece of information the current temperature and this piece of information the chance of precipitation.
They're both available on that currently object.
I have a temperature property.
This is where I get the temperature from and I also have properties related to precipitation.
Right here I have pre sip probability currently at zero.
So using these two pieces of information we want to generate the following forecast.
That means you're going to comment out this line or remove it and add another council log call in to
print your forecast.
From there you're going to test your work.
So you want to run the script and make sure you're seeing your string with the correct values added
inside.
Take as much time as you need to generate this string using those two pieces of dynamic information.
And when you're done come back and click play and we'll work through it together.
How that go.
Let's get things started by working with our message.
So I'm going to use console dot log to print something and that something is the string right here with
those two dynamic values included.
So we start off with some static text I'll create that in a string.
It is currently followed by a space then we're going to concatenate on the actual temperature.
So like we did before.
That's going to be response dot body dot currently.
That's going to bring us to this object right here.
And on that object we have the temperature property which is the one we're looking for.
So dot temperature Excellent.
Now after the temperature we go back to some static text so I'll concatenate on another string and we
will start with a space the space between the temperature and the D in degrees.
Now I'll start typing out degrees out period followed by the start of the next sentence there is a space
and in here we have to insert the percent chance of rain.
So once again I'm going to concatenate on a value that will be a response dot body dot currently dot.
And right here we are looking for pre-set probability.
So precision using these shorthand for the word probability.
And finally we can concatenate on the closing static text so after our probability it's percent chance
of rain.
So right here a percent chance of rain.
Excellent.
Now we have this really long string created and we can go ahead and actually test our work.
So I'm going to rerun the program from the terminal down below to start I'll use clear to clear the
current output then node Space Act J asked to rerun the program and what do I get I get.
It is currently fifty eight point two two degrees out there is a zero percent chance of rain which is
fantastic.
We were able to make an H TTP request for data parts that data into a format that was usable and actually
use it inside of our node J.S. application in a meaningful way from here.
I want to go ahead and wrap up the video by exploring some of the options we can use with Dark Sky to
customize the data that comes back.
I'm going to remove those challenge comments and we're gonna head back over to the dark sky API dashboard
where we originally got our secret key and the example you are all we're using from here we can head
over to the docs page where we can learn how to customize the options available to us and what we want
is a forecast request showing on the left hand side.
Now if we click that it is going to show us the example request.
Right here we can see we have the key the latitude and longitude all showing up in the list and we have
an example response down below.
Now if we scroll past that example response we get to the request parameters where we can start to customize
exactly what's happening now.
Key latitude and longitude.
Those are provided directly in the you are well as we've seen here.
It's forward slash forecast forward slash key then forward slash the LAT comma the law.
Now what we want to do is use these other options for example we have exclude so we can leave off parts
of the forecast we're not using to make our response faster.
We have extend so we can extend the amount of our data we want to get back.
We have laying so we can customize the language being used and we also have units so we can customize
the units that are coming back.
Now the two most common units are going to be us four imperial units and s i if you're trying to use
the Celsius temperature and we're gonna go ahead and explore how we can actually set these up.
So all of these optional options like units laying and excludes those are set up as query strings.
So that means at the end of our you are well we're going to set up a query string which starts with
a question mark followed by key value pairs.
So its key equals value.
Now you can add on multiple key value pairs by using the end sign right here and then adding another
one.
So other key equals other value we're gonna use this format to set up the options we want.
It's important that this comes at the end of the you are L.
So after the last number in the U.R.L. we're going to put a question mark then we're going to set up
the one key value pair we want.
The name is called units which matches up exactly with what we're seeing in the documentation.
And we set that equal to the type of units we want to over here.
I'm gonna go ahead and set it equal to S I.
So I can see my temperature in Celsius.
Now if we save the program we can rerun things down below and we get the exact same forecast with a
difference in the temperature.
It's now currently fourteen point seven one degrees out with still a zero percent chance of rain.
If I do want to stick with the imperial units I can always hard hardcoded or fall back to its value
since this is indeed the default.
Now if I rerun any program again what do I get.
I get the old temperature we had although it went up a fraction of a degree because I'm currently filming
in the morning and it's getting warmer outside.
So now that we have this in place we know how to customize the response we're getting back.
I'm going to go ahead and remove units since the imperial units is indeed the default value if you're
interested in seeing your weather information in Celsius.
I recommend keeping units set up so you can print that temperature instead of Fahrenheit.
Now before we go I want to pull in one more piece of information into our forecast.
If we head back over to the data in the browser we can explore in more than just this currently object.
Sure this contains some useful information but there are plenty of things that are not there.
For example what's the temperature high for today or what's the temperature low.
If we collapse currently we'll see there are three other main properties for getting weather information.
We have minimally hourly and daily all of which contain a forecast of that type.
So I have a minute by minute forecast in here and hour by hour and a day by day forecast now for all
of those we have this data properties.
So I have daily data.
If I expand hourly I have hourly data.
And lastly minute lead data.
That is an array of objects where each object gives you some information about the thing you're looking
at.
So let's look at daily.
We have an array of objects inside of the data property.
The first object contains a bunch of information about today.
So right here I have things like the visibility the temperature mean the temperature Max the apparent
highs and lows.
All of this information could be used in the forecast to describe today.
Now the second object in this array would be information about tomorrow.
So right here I can see the summary for tomorrow is clear throughout the day.
And I have other information like the high and low which I could also incorporate into my project.
What I'm going to do is pull in the first days summary so we access that data property on daily.
From there we grab the first array item which is an object and we grab the summary property and we're
just going to toss that right up front.
So before our current string we are going to access right inside of console dot log response dot body
to get to this object then dot daily then dot data and remember data is an array.
I'm going to access items by index using bracket notation.
I want to get the first one with the index of 0 that is going to point to this object and we're going
to grab that summary property so dot summary.
Now from here I am going to concatenate on the rest of our message using the plus sign and I will put
a space before it.
So our two sentences aren't crammed together.
Now we have even more information about the forecast and we can rerun our program to see what we get.
So right here if I rerun it.
What do we get.
We can see we now have the summary before the message we had before.
So this is what we had before.
This is the new stuff.
It now reads clear throughout the day.
It's currently fifty eight degrees out.
There is a zero percent chance of rain.
So that's a pretty good summary of today's weather giving you some useful information.
Now that laying option would come into effect if we wanted to change the language we could do so obviously
we would need to rewrite these static strings that we created but we could have dark sky automatically
generate the summary in a different language.
And that's the last thing we're going to do over in the dark sky documentation if we scroll up before
units we had that laying option right here and there are all sorts of different languages.
If we scroll down e end which is for English is the default I'm going to switch it over to E S for Spanish
so I'm going to set up the laying option on the end of the U.R.L. so I'll scroll to the right.
Now I don't currently have units set up so I do need to add the question mark then laying equals right
here E S if you already had units you would just use the ampersand after units and set up the other
key value pair now that we have this in place we can rerun our script once again.
And what do we get.
We get the summary shown in Spanish and the rest shown as it was before.
So if we were creating an application for Spanish speaking individuals we would obviously write out
our own Spanish for these static parts and have dark sky generate its text using the language we set
up.
Let's go ahead and remove that option unless you are interested in creating this program in a different
language.
And that's where we're going to stop for this one.
We've done a few important things here.
First up we got requested to do some more work for us by having it pass our Jason we also explored how
we can explore data using the Jason format our extension in the rouser making it easier to see what
data we can actually incorporate into our application and then we set up the forecast strain and we
explored the options available to us now that we have this in place.
It's time to talk about how we can change the location.
You'll notice that the forecast API requires the latitude and longitude of the location you're trying
to get a forecast for.
It can't take in a string like Philadelphia or Belgium.
It needs more detailed information the lat and long in the next video you're going to learn how to use
another API that can indeed get the lat and long for us when we provide it some sort of English readable
address.
I'm excited to get to that.
So let's go ahead and jump right in to the next one.